Gave Interview at Careem
they have multiple stages
- pehle online test hai unka at hackerrank.com
3 programming questions and 5 mcq, 
programming mein 2 speed programming 
(logical and easy )
and aik data structure (i got BST)
-uskay baat aik call per interview with HR
she asks about yourself, what u like, whats your domain like kis technology py kaam krna chao gy and why
careem ki HR is very tricky and asks about expected salary on phone jabkay expected salary bilkul end mein after all the interviews pochny chaye
uskay baad they give u a date usdin apaky 5 interviews hoty hain
-1 with HR
-4 Technical Interviews without gap
matlab gap sirf yeh ha
aik banda uth k jaata ha 
and aglay ko apna kaam chor k aanay ka time
max 5-10 min
HR interview is less of an interview
woh sirf apkay preferences etc puchy gy and describe krengy
how careem is how it works and how they are planning to expand. 
She asks u ur domain 
1- Java Backend
2- Html css 
3- android
then they fix the interviewer accordingly
technical mein they asked me
-OOP k 4 pillars btao?
and then yeh btao yeh android mein kahan hain like for Inheritance i said: Every thing is inherited from a Context Class. and every static functions needs/require a context variable to use its variables
-Polymorphism kahan hain?
to like findViewbyId() it returns a view type that is typecasted at run time is trhan
-for encapsulation kyun krty hain variable hide krny ka faida?
to i said: its not about secrecy. by example explain kia like human ki class ha with an int weight to koi meri class user krah ho
he can access tha variable directly and minus mein weight set krskta ha
but aik set k function mein i can validate
setWeight(int weiight){
if weight < 0
throw exception
isliye encapsulation to stop errors in coworking environment
-Abstraction kyun krty hain?
-design patterns py bohat ragar rahy hain
i told them k mene design patterns as a course nhi parah ha
he asked me k kn kn design patterns atay hain?
i said:
Singleton
adapter
oberver
builder
-singleton android mein kahan use hota ha
-Adapter kahan use hoty hain
-purpose of Adapter?
-how do u think watsapp works? communicaiton kese hoty hain b/w users?
-how do u think careem works from booking ride to captain recieves notification?
uskay elawa sabny coding krwaye
1- Linkedlist reverse krdo
2- given time in seconds output a string with
hours "colon" minutes
3- u have a function that gets called everytime u receive a msg
write another function than can tell me how many messages are recived per minute
4- aik array dy huwe hain with
strings (directory name) and 
single dot (for root directory)
double dot (for one directory above)
given this array output krdo
final directory kia hogy
like
{ aaa, aabb, cc, ..}
its becomes
\aaa \ aabb\ cc
(and now there is double dot)
\aaa, \aabb\
threading k concepts
deadlocks
complexity
procedures
triggers
mutable objects
what is SOLID
what is NP hard,
aur bhe concepts thay
i cannot recall everything
1 day
3 bje shru 
6:30 tak
3:30 hrs
mein 5 interviews